1. log in to your aws account 

2. search ec2 > create a instance with ubuntu with default key which is used for ssh_rsa_key

3. then goto ec2 > instance > details > public_ip 

4. goto your local pc : 
------------------------
┌─[✗]─[shuvo@parrot]─[~/Downloads/Ostad DevOps/Create EC2 aws script]
└──╼ $sudo ssh -i ostad_keyPair_rsa.pem ubuntu@52.90.128.202
[sudo] password for shuvo: 
The authenticity of host '52.90.128.202 (52.90.128.202)' can't be established.
ED25519 key fingerprint is SHA256:Xpoagee8MxLhLjU1oHnVx/avGw77+h4F6AFGgcfY0Jg.
This key is not known by any other names.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no/[fingerprint])? yes
Warning: Permanently added '52.90.128.202' (ED25519) to the list of known hosts.
Welcome to Ubuntu 24.04.3 LTS (GNU/Linux 6.14.0-1011-aws x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/pro

 System information as of Fri Sep  5 19:17:34 UTC 2025

  System load:  0.02              Processes:             110
  Usage of /:   25.6% of 6.71GB   Users logged in:       0
  Memory usage: 22%               IPv4 address for enX0: 172.31.31.219
  Swap usage:   0%

Expanded Security Maintenance for Applications is not enabled.

0 updates can be applied immediately.

Enable ESM Apps to receive additional future security updates.
See https://ubuntu.com/esm or run: sudo pro status


The list of available updates is more than a week old.
To check for new updates run: sudo apt update


The programs included with the Ubuntu system are free software;
the exact distribution terms for each program are described in the
individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright.

Ubuntu comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by
applicable law.

To run a command as administrator (user "root"), use "sudo <command>".
See "man sudo_root" for details.

ubuntu@ip-172-31-31-219:~$ 
